-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
originally extracted from here:
https://d2mods.info/forum/kb/viewarticle?a=285
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                              The Phrozen Keep's
                            Hireling.txt File Guide

                          Written by Draco & Ric Faith
                        Expanded and Restyled by Ogodei

                   for Diablo II Expansion Set v1.10 - 1.114

                           Updated October 24, 2018

This document was created based on the excellent guides on the Phrozen Keep
forums regarding the columns in the Diablo II Data files.

Introduction

This file handles everything related to hirelings. In here you set what
hirelings that is avaible to hire, what items they are able to use, their stats
and what skills they are using.

Hireling.txt works in par with
 - ItemTypes.txt
 - Skills.txt

Column Descriptions

Hireling: Description of hireling type, this column has no function, it only
serves as a comment field to make it easier.

SubType: Description of hireling sub-type, this column has no function, it only
serves as a comment field to make it easier.

Version: 0 is for Classic, 100 is for Expansion.

Id: ID number to segregate the hirelings and threshold lvls.

Class: reference to the column 'hcIdx' in MonStats.txt. This indicates the base
monster of the mercenary.

Act: Act where merc can be hired.

Difficulty: it ranges from 1 to 3, respectively for Normal/Nightmare/Hell.

Level: monster level of the hireling. It also states the required level for
upgrading skills and stats.

Seller: reference to the column 'hcIdx' in MonStats.txt for the NPC who sells
this mercenary.

NameFirst - NameLast: Range from which the game looks to get random names for
the hirelings. These indexes are taken from the .TBL files, which you can edit
via specific softwares and are found in Data/local/(your language).

Gold: The cost of the hireling, compounded by mlvl

Exp/Lvl: This indicates a factor used in the calcuationof the experience
required to advance to the next mLvl. The threshold for the next level (L+1)
from the current level (L) is (exp/lvl)*L*L*(L+1).

HP - HP/Lvl - Defence - Def/Lvl - Str - Str/Lvl - Dex - Dex/Lvl - AR - AR/lvl -
Dmg-Min - Dmg-Max - Dmg-Lvl - Resist - Resist/Lvl: It tells how much of these
stats the mercenary has at his\her base lvl and how much of them are gained as
your mercenary advances through mLvls.  NOTE: Keep in mind that Dmg-Lvl and
Resist/Lvl must be set in 8ths.

Share: Used to co-relate between threshold lvls between Normal, NM, Hell
Hirelings.

WType1 - WType2: Can't be changed, is the itemtype of the items that can be
carried in weapon slots.

HireDesc: A reference for .tbl files.

DefaultChance: It is the chance for which your mercenary will use his\her
weapon (a.k.a regular attack) rather than a skill.

Skill X: Reference to the 'Skill' column in Skills.txt

Mode X: These modes must contain preset values and defines how your mercenary
will use the skills.

    1 -> Auras 
    4 -> Attack 
    5 -> Attack (use for Barbs, works the same way as Mode=4) 
    7 -> Cast 
    14-> Seq (use for Jab) 

Chance X - ChancePerLevel X: It is the chance for your mercenary to use the
skill at base mLvl and as he\she progresses through mLvls.  NOTE: The chance is
calculated by probability.

Example:
    Normal Fire Rogue:
    Default Chance = 75, Inner Sight = 10, Fire Arrow = 25.
    By probability, the game does: Chance/TotChance *100%
    result:
    Default (Attack) = 75/110 *100% = 68.18%
    Inner Sight = 10/110 *100% = 9.09%
    Fire Arrow = 25/110 *100% = 22.73%

Level X - LvlPerLvl X: They handle the sLvl of the Skill at Base lvl and the
sLvl increase at level up.

Head, Torso, Weapon, Shield: References to the anims for monster parts, which
since at least LoD are hardcoded to LIT. 
