-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
originally extracted from here:
https://d2mods.info/forum/kb/viewarticle?a=301
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                              The Phrozen Keep's
                             Levels.txt File Guide

                         Written by Nefarius & Kingpin
                        Expanded and Restyled by Ogodei

                   for Diablo II Expansion Set v1.10 - 1.14d

                           Updated October 24, 2018

This document was created based on the excellent guides on the Phrozen Keep
forums regarding the columns in the Diablo II Data files.

Introduction

This is the file that controls how the game handles links levels, what monsters
and object that are spawned that are placed on the level.

This file is used in pair with:
 - LvlMaze.txt
 - LvlPrest
 - LvlSub.txt
 - LvlTypes.txt
 - MonStats.txt
 - Automap.txt
 - LvlWarp.txt
 - Objgroup.txt

Column Descriptions

Name: This column has no function, it only serves as a comment field to make it
easier to identify the Level name

Id: Level ID (used in columns like VIS0-7)

Pal: Act Palette. Reference only

Act: The Act the Level is located in (internal enumeration ranges from 0 to 4).

QuestFlag - QuestFlagEx: Used the first one in Classic games and the latter in
Expansion games , they set a questflag. If this flag is set, a character must
have completed the quest associated with the flag to take a town portal to the
area in question. A character can always use a portal to get back to town.

Layer: Each layer is an unique ID. This number is used to store each automap on
a character. This is used by the game to remember what level the automap are
for.  NOTE: you need to use the extended levels plugin to be able to add
additional layers.

SizeX (X) - SizeY (X): sizeX - SizeY in each difficuly. If this is a preset
area this sets the X size for the area. Othervise use the same value here that
are used in lvlprest.txt to set the size for the .ds1 file.

OffsetX - OffsetY: They set the X\Y position in the world space

Depend: This set what level id's are the Depended level. Example: Monastery
uses this field to place its entrance always at same location.

Teleport: Controls if teleport is allowed in that level.

    0 = Teleport not allowed
    1 = Teleport allowed
    2 = Teleport allowed, but not able to use teleport throu walls/objects
        (maybe for objects this is controlled by IsDoor column in objects.txt)

Rain: It sets whether rain or snow (in act 5 only) can fall . Set it to 1 in
order to enable it, 0 to disable it.

Mud: Unused setting (In pre beta D2 Blizzard planned Rain to generate Mud which
would have slowed your character's speed down, but this never made it into the
final game). the field is read by the code but the return value is never
utilized.

NoPer: Setting for 3D Enhanced D2 that disables Perspective Mode for a specific
level. A value of 1 enables the users to choose between normal and Perspective
view, while 0 disables that choice.

LOSDraw: Allows you to look through objects and walls even if they are not in a
wilderness level. 1 enables it, 0 disables it.

FloorFilter: Unknown. Probably has to do with Tiles and their Placement . 1
enables it, 0 disables it.

BlankScreen: Unknown. Probably has to do with tiles and their placement. 1
enables it, 0 disables it.

DrawEdges: for levels bordered with mountains or walls, like the act 1
wildernesses. 1 enables it, 0 disables it.

IsInside: Setting it to 1 makes the level to be treated as an indoor area,
while 0 makes this level an outdoor. Indoor areas are not affected by day-night
cycles, because they always use the light values specified in Intensity, Red,
Green, Blue. this field also controls whenever sounds will echo if you're
running the game with a sound card capable of it and have enviroment sound
effects set to true.

DrlgType: Setting for Level Generation: You have 3 possibilities here:

    1 = Random Maze
    2 = Preset Area
    3 = Wilderness level

LevelType: The type of the Level (Id from lvltypes.txt)

Sub Columns IDs from LvlSub.txt, which is used to randomize outdoor areas, such
as spawning ponds in the blood moor and more stones in the Stoney Field. This
is all changeable, the other subcolumns are explained in this post.

SubType: Setting Regarding the level type.
Example: 6=wilderness, 9=desert etc, -1=no subtype.

SubTheme: Tells which subtheme a wilderness area should use. Themes ranges from
-1 (no subtheme) to 4.

SubWaypoint: Setting Regarding Waypoints
NOTE: it does NOT control waypoint placement.

SubShrine: Setting Regarding Shrines.
NOTE: it does NOT control which Shrine will spawn.

Vis0 - Vis7: These fields allow linking level serverside, allowing you to
travel through areas. The Vis must be filled in with the LevelID your level is
linked with, but the actuall number of Vis ( 0 - 7 ) is determined by your
actual map (the .ds1 fle).
Example: Normally Cave levels are only using vis 0-3 and wilderness areas 4-7.

Warp0-7: This controls the visual graphics then you move the mouse pointer over
an entrance. To show the graphics you use an ID from lvlwarp.txt and the
behavior on the graphics is controlled by lvlwarp.txt. Your Warps must match
your Vis.
Example: If your level uses Vis 3-5-7, then you must also use Warp 3-5-7.

Intensity - Red - Green - Blue: These settings handle the light intensity as
well as its RGB components.

Portal: This field is required for some levels, entering those levels when
portal field isn't set will often crash the game. This also applies to
duplicates of those levels created with both of the extended level plugins.

Position: This controls if you can re-position a portal in a level or not. If
it's set to 1 you will be able to reposition the portal by using either map
entry#76 Tp Location #79. If both tiles are in the level it will use Tp
Location #79. If set to 0 the map won't allow repositioning.

SaveMonster: Setting this field to 1 will make the monsters status saved in the
map. Setting it to 0 will allow some useful things like NPC refreshing their
stores. WARNING: Do not set this to 1 for non-town areas, or the monsters
you'll flee from will simply vanish and never reappear. They won't even be
replaced by new ones

Quest: What quest is this level related to. This is the quest id (as example
the first quest Den of Evil are set to 1, since its the first quest).

WarpDist: This sets the minimum distance from a VisX or WarpX location that a
monster, object or tile can be spawned at. (also applies to waypoints and some
preset portals).

MonLvl1 - 3 MonLvl1Ex - MonLvl3-Ex: Area Level on Normal-Nightmare-Hell in
Classic and Expansion . It controls the item level of items that drop from
chests etc.

MonDen (X): This is a chance in 100000ths that a monster pack will spawn on a
tile. The maximum chance the game allows is 10% (aka 10000) in v1.10+,

MonUMin - MonUMax: Minimum - Maximum Unique and Champion Monsters Spawned in
this Level. Whenever any spawn at all however is bound to MonDen.

MonWndr: [To be updated]

MonSpcWalk: This setting is hardcoded to certain level Ids, like the River Of
Flame, enabling it in other places can glitch up the game, so leave it alone.
It is not known what exactly it does however.

NumMon: Number of different Monster Types that will be present in this area,
the maximum is 13. You can have up to 13 different monster types at a time in
Nightmare and Hell difficulties, selected randomly from nmon1-nmon25. In Normal
difficulty you can have up to 13 normal monster types selected randomly from
mon1-mon25, and the same number of champion and unique types selected randomly
from umon1-umon25.

mon1-mon25, nmon1-nmon25: mon1-mon25 work in Normal difficulty, while
nmon1-nmon25 in Nightmare and Hell. They tell the game which monster ID taken
from MonStats.txt. NOTE: you need to manually add from mon11 to mon25 and from
nmon11 to nmon25 !

rangedspawn: Give preference to monsters set to ranged=1 in MonStats.txt on
Nightmare and Hell difficulties when picking something to spawn.

umon1-umon25: Works only in normal and it tells which ID will be used for
Champion and Random Uniques. The ID is taken from MonStats.txtOnly the first
ten columns appear in the unmodded file. In 1.10 final, beta 1.10s and v1.11+
you can add the missing umon11-umon25 columns.  NOTE: you can allow umon1-25 to
also work in Nightmare and Hell by following this simple ASM edit

cmon11-4: Critter Species 1-4. Uses the Id from monstats2.txt and only monsters
with critter column set to 1 can spawn here. critter column is also found in
monstats2.txt. Critters are in reality only present clientside.

cpct1-cpct4: Controls the chance for a critter to spawn.

camt1-camt4: Unknown. These columns are bugged, as the game overrides the
contents of columns 3-4 with the value from column 1 when it compiles the bin
files.

Themes: Unknown. It states which theme is used by the area and this field is
accessed by the code but it is not exactly known what it does.

SoundEnv: Referes to a entry in SoundEnviron.txt (for the Levels Music)

Waypoint: 255 means no Waipoint for this level, while others state the
Waypoint' ID for the level. NOTE: you can switch waypoint destinations between
areas this way, not between acts however so don't even bother to try.

LevelName: String Code for the Display name of the Level

LevelWarp: String Code for the Display name of a entrance to this Level

EntryFile: Which *.DC6 Title Image is loaded when you enter this area. this
file MUST exist, otherwise you will crash with an exception when you enter the
level (for all levels below the expansion row, the files must be present in the
expension folders)

ObjGrp0-7: this field uses the ID of the ObjectGroup you want to Spawn in this
Area, taken from Objgroup.txt.

ObjPrb0-7: These fields indicates the chance for each object group to spawn (if
you use ObjGrp0 then set ObjPrb0 to a value below 100)

Beta: Reference Only (can be used for comments) 
