-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
originally extracted from here:
https://d2mods.info/forum/kb/viewarticle?a=2
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                              The Phrozen Keep's
                             Armor.txt File Guide

             Written by Nefarius, Kingpin, Ric Faith & Paul Siramy
                       Expanded and Restyled by Ogodei

                   for Diablo II Expansion Set v1.10 - 1.14d

                           Updated May 25, 2022

This document was created based on the excellent guides on the Phrozen Keep
forums regarding the columns in the Diablo II Data files.

Introduction

This guide contains all the information you need concerning Armor.txt. Before
you start reading what each column does, please take note of the following:

Armor.txt, Misc.txt and Weapons.txt have many identical columns. That's because
in fact these 3 text files are, in truth, three parts of a single big file:
when the game reads these 3 tables, it merges them all, one after another, into
one and unique table. These 3 text files contain all the base items of the
game: normal / exceptional / elite versions of the in-game items. Incidently,
that means you can add columns to any one of these 3 files. For instance if you
add the columns Transmogrify, TMogType, TMogMin and TMogMax to Armor.txt and
use them for an Helm, then this Helm will be able to be Transmute into another
item, something that doesn't look possible at first glance since the 4 columns
are not originally in Armor.txt.

NOTE: to add columns in a .txt, don't use D2Excel, as this program can't do the
job. Instead, use MS Excel or another spreadsheet that can import and export
tab-delimited .txt files.

Column Descriptions

name: Reference only, its a comment field.

version: A value of 0 means the item will only spawn in classic. A value of 100
makes it available in Expansion.

compactsave: Boolean which ranges from 0 to 1. This is used to get a smaller
filesize but will NOT save any stats to the item, this means it will not save
any quantity, automagic, affixes, damage, armor, durability e.tc. This is often
used by items that don't need any stats stored like Healing potions, gems.

rarity: Rarity, if set to 0, excludes the item(s) to be dropped from the armor
racks. If set to something bigger than 0, then it sets the rarity for this item
to drop from any armor rack. The higher, the rarer. NOTE: You need at least 1
armor with rarity 0 or 1, otherwise the game will crash when you use an armor
rack, simply because it won't find any armor available.

spawnable: if set to 0 , this field tells the game that the item cannot be
found for sale when you interact with NPC's. Setting it to 1 has the opposite
effect.

minAC - maxAC: The minimum and maximum Armor Class (AC) this item can have.
Take note that ItemStatCost.txt sets the limit to how high Defense can be.

Absorbs: Unused. It is a leftover field.

speed: If set to a positive value, then it slows down your character when worn.
Negative values, instead, will render the character faster.

reqstr: Strength required to wear this armor. it ranges from 0 to 65535.
NOTE: If you set values exceeding the caps, you will get a rollover.

levelreq: the minimum level the players need to have to use that item

block: Chance to block. Block chances are capped at 75%

durability - nodurability - durwarning: Durability sets the base durability,
and ranges from 0 to 255(if set higher or lower than these two caps, you'll
have a rollover). NoDurability means the item has not any durability.
DurWarning displays the warning icon on the right part of your screen when the
Durability of the item hits the amount set here.

indestructible: If set to 0 , then the item will be indestructible. If set to
1, then the item will be subject to durability and can get broken.
Indestructible items DO NOT read any of the durability related fields.

cost: Base cost of the item.

gamble: Overrides the default Gamble Cost, but it only works for Rings and
Amulets in Misc.txt

code: This is a 3 or 4 alphanumeric code which identifies the item for certain
purposes.

namestr: It is the name string of the item. NOTE: If this string is NOT present
in a TBL, it will be considered directly as the name of the item, but if this
code IS present in a TBL then it'll be that TBL record that will be used as the
name of the item instead. Also, keep in mind that if you want a string name
with at least 1 space, then you'll have to create a record in a TBL.

normcode - ubercode - ultracode: There are the "code" strings referring to the
normal, exceptional and Ã¨lite version of the item. These codes are used to know
the version of an item in certain situation, like when generating the outputs
set in CubeMain.txt

    Lion Helm has a code of ba7, and it's classified as Exceptional, because:

    normcode = ba2
    ubercode = ba7
    ultracode = bac

    So, the Lion helm is an exceptional item, and cube recipes which require
    normal or ultra items won't work

level: Base item level, also known as "Quality Level" or "qLvl".  NOTE: this
is NOT the iLvl of the item. ILvl indicates which affixes can appear on the
item. QLvl is, instead, used when the game creates the treasure class and
preventing chests and monsters from dropping items of every posible level. A
Level 20 monster will never drop a Level 30 armor used by the "armo30" preset
row in TreasureClassEx

magic lvl: it is the Additional magic level a.k.a mLvl (do not confuse mLvl
with other similar names like mLvl intended as Monster Level or cLvl, intended
as Character Level). If mLvl is set to 5 and a level 10 player gambles an item,
you get cLvl + mLvl affixes, so Level 15 affixes

auto prefix: it is a prefix automatically spawned on the item, taken from the
column "group" of Automagic.txt.

alternategfx: it's the code of the DCC used by the Player animation while
equipping the item.

OpenBetaGfx: Unused. Reference to which alternategfx was used in the Beta
version.

spelloffset: Unknown. Only present in Armor.txt

component: Layer of the Player Animation used by the item, taken from
Composit.txt. The Composit table is indexed as follows:

    1 - Head          HD
    2 - Torso         TR
    3 - Legs          LG
    4 - RightArm      RA
    5 - LeftArm       LA
    6 - RightHand     RH
    7 - LeftHand      LH
    8 - Shield        SH
    9 - Special1      S1   (shoulder #1)
    10 - Special2     S2   (shoulder #2)
    11 - Special3     S3
    12 - Special4     S4
    13 - Special5     S5
    14 - Special6     S6
    15 - Special7     S7
    16 - Special8     S8

rArm - lArm - Torso - Legs - rSPad - lSPad: These columns indicates how the
character graphics and animations will be altered by wearing the item. It
ranges from -1 (remove even the light\naked version) to 2 (heavy version).
These indexes are taken from the table indexes located in ArmType.txt which is
hardcoded.

    0 - Light           lit
    1 - Medium          med
    2 - Heavy           hvy

If you'd ever wish to extend this table, follow this simple ASM code edit:
https://d2mods.info/forum/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=65261&hilit=ArmType

flippyfile - invfile - uniqueinvfile - setinvfile: These four columns contain
DC6 filenames to use for various cases: flippyfile is the animation used when
the item drops on the ground, invfile is the item image when it's in your
inventory, uniqueinvfile is used by the unique version of the item in your
inventory and setinvfile is used by the set version of the item in your
inventory. All of these files are located in Data\Global\Items\

invwidth- invheight: width and heght of the item, in terms of inventory cells.

Socketing Parameters

hasinv: hasinv states if the item has an "inventory", meaning it's able to
store gems or runes within. ( 1 : yes ; 0 : no). (You need to set MaxSock 1/25/40
in itemtypes.txt to at least 1 to have sockets in the item)

gemsockets: determines the potential maximum amount of sockets, capped to width
* height. In addition, there are three fields in ItemTypes.txt that limit the
number of sockets, based on the level of the monster that drops the item. These
columns are MaxSock1, MaxSock25 and MaxSock40.

gemapplytype: determines which kind of effect the gem will apply to the item
it's inserted within:

    0 = weapon
    1 = armor / helm
    2 = shield

If you use other values, your item won't be able to have sockets.

useable: It specifies whether the item can be used via right-click. ( 1 : yes ;
0 : no). This is a column often used in Misc.txt for potions and scrolls NOTE:
The game knows what to with the item by its code. Unless you're doing dll
editing, don't expect an item to do something just because you have set this
column to 1.

Throwable: Not used here.

missiletype: Missile gfx to load when the item is thrown, taken from
Missiles.txt

stackable - minstack - maxstack - qntwarning: These four columns handle the
possibilty, for the item, to be stacked. stackable decides if the item can be
stacked or not. ( 1 : yes ; 0 : no). minstack is the Minimum quantity of the
stack when the item is spawned. maxstack is the Maximum quantity of the stack
when the item is spawned. qntwarning is the Quantity from which the warning
message appears. NOTE: These columns are not used in Armor.txt, but only in
Misc.txt (Keys, Books) and Weapons.txt (Javelins, Arrows ...)

type - type2: Base types of the item. Types are used in various instances like
when messing with Cube Recipe and Socketing. They're taken from the field named
"code" in ItemTypes.txt.

dropsound - dropsfxframe - usesound: these three columns are related to the
item sound. The code is taken from the field "Sound" in Sounds.txt.  dropsound
is used when the item drops on the ground, dropsfxframe is the point (measured
in frames) after which the sound from 'dropsound' plays and usesound is the
sound played when the item is used or moved through the inventory.

quest - questdiffcheck: these two columns are related to quests: quest handles
some hardcoded ID's for quest items. Quest items are counted as Uniques and
cannot be sold to NPC's. questdiffcheck indicates that the item has a
difficulty check. When set to 1, this item will only work in the difficulty in
which it's been found. NOTE: This column is originally only present in Misc.txt
and Weapons.txt.

unique: If this column is set to 1 , then the item can only spawn as unique.

transparent - transtbl: Unknown. Apparently has no effect in game. TransTbl
could be related to the item's blending mode.

quivered: It tells if the item needs ammunitions to work or not. ( 1 : yes ; 0
: no).

lightradius: Not used.

Belt: This column has two different meanings. In Armor.txt it works as an index
telling which type of belt the item is:

    0: no belt (1 potion row only)
    1: Sash (2 potion rows)
    2: not used
    3: Girdles (4 potion rows)
    4: light belts (2 potion rows)
    5: heavy belts (3 potion rows)
    6: uber belts (4 potion rows)

while in Misc.txt the column has another meaning, which states whether the item
can or cannot be put inside the belt cells. ( 1 : yes ; 0 : no).  NOTE: Since
Misc.txt and Armor.txt are part of the same file, it seems that the game looks
for the type of the item first, and *then* decide how to understand the value
in this column.

mindam - maxdam: Minimum and Maximum damage that this item provide. If used on
a shield or on a pair of boots, the damage in question will be either Smite or
Kick damage.

StrBonus- DexBonus: The amount of Strength and \ or Dexterity required to
double the damage output while wearing this item. In Armor.txt it is important
to note that only boots are using this column.  However, here is an example
that will clarify any doubt in regard.

    We have a Maiden spear, which has a StrBonus of 80, a DexBonus of 50,
    2-hand mindam of 18 and a 2-hand maxdam of 24.

    Now, if the player has 100 Strength and 120 Dexterity, the item's damage
    output will be 83-111 instead of 18-24.

    By Strength, it will be affected this way:
      - Min = 18 * 100 / 80 = 22.5
      - Max = 24 * 100 / 80 = 30

    By Dexterity, it will be affected this way:
      - Min = 18 * 120 / 50 = 43.2
      - Max = 24 * 120 / 50 = 57.6

    Total
      - Min damages = 18 + 22 + 43 = 83
      - Max damages = 24 + 30 + 57 = 111

gemoffset: Placeholder field used to link a socketable item with the
corresponding record in Gems.txt, where one exists. Data is filled in during
the game loading. It is unknown if non-zero values allow multiple record
selectivity.

bitfield1: Bitfield used primarily for various things, most remarkably the item
material.

    1 = Leather item
    3 = Metal item, which allows the creation of iron golem

vendorMin - vendorMax - vendorMagicMin - vendorMagicMax - vendorMagicLvl: These
columns control what the different Vendors can sells.  "Vendors" are

    Charsi
    Gheed
    Akara
    Fara
    Lysander
    Drognan
    Hratli
    Alkor
    Ormus
    Elzix
    Asheara
    Cain
    Halbu
    Jamella
    Larzuk
    Malah
    Drehya (Anya)

vendorMin - vendorMax act as minimum \ maximum amount of items of this type the
vendor can sell. Do not increase these values too much or you will risk to
crash the game if it spawns too many items.

vendorMagicMin - vendorMagicMax have the same purposes as the ones above, but
for the magical items

vendorMagicLvl controls the mLvl of the affixes an item can get.

PermStoreItem: This field is originally absent in Armor.txt, but you ought to
add it as it's used to make Permanent items, so that vendors will always sell
them. ( 1 : yes ; 0 : no).

Source Art - Game Art: Not used.

Transform - InvTrans: These fields let you mess around with colors. Transform
states the colormap to use for the player's gfx and InvTrans states the
colormap to use for the inventory's gfx. You need to use the Code from
Colors.txt

    Transform Color     Code
    White               whit
    Light Grey          lgry
    Dark Grey           dgry
    Black               blac
    Light Blue          lblu
    Dark Blue           dblu
    Crystal Blue        cblu
    Light Red           lred
    Dark Red            dred
    Crystal Red         cred
    Light Green         lgrn
    Dark Green          dgrn
    Crystal Green       cgrn
    Light Yellow        lyel
    Dark Yellow         dyel
    Light Gold          lgld
    Dark Gold           dgld
    Light Purple        lpur
    Dark Purple         dpur
    Orange              oran
    Bright White        bwht

SkipName: For items like the viper amulet, It makes the game skips the Base
name in the item description.

NightmareUpgrade - HellUpgrade: These columns handle the code of the item the
Vendor will sell instead of this item in Nightmare / Hell. Set these to 'xxx'
for not having any change

nameable: Used by the reward of Anya's quest and tells if the item can be
personalized or not. ( 1 : yes ; 0 : no).
